hello there ielts candidates did you
know that there
are 11 different reading question types
the good news is on test day you won't
get all
11 of them however you don't know which
ones you're going to get so you do need
to prepare for all of them
one thing you can be sure of is that you
will get multiple choice questions
for some reason they're just in all of
the tests so
in this lesson we're going to take a
close look at multiple choice
so multiple choice questions are pretty
straightforward whether you're taking
the computer delivered test or the paper
based
test there are actually two types in
this one here you're just
choosing one answer a b c or
d sometimes you'll have to choose two
like a and c or b and d or whatever
all right let's take a look at this one
here this
paragraph we're going to read is about
making booze with
rare animals and how it sends a man to
prison
we're not going to read the whole thing
because on test day you
don't really need to what you'll do
instead is you'll just work through the
paragraph
and work through the questions because
they actually come in the same
order right so you can see down there
number one some people believe that
alcohol which includes
animal parts a can cure diseases b
is a tradition from china c is a
lucrative trade or
d is more intoxicating all of these are
plausible
but if we read this part of the
paragraph here it says
some drinkers in south east asia prefer
their alcohol distilled with
animal parts a tradition stemming from
the supposed
curative powers
so if we look at that phrase there
supposed curative powers
and then we look back at the answer
options
which one matches hopefully you got
a some people believe it can cure
diseases
okay so what you can see here is that we
have a
phrase supposed curative powers and then
we have
can cure diseases we've got to sort of i
don't know what that is it's a bit of a
transformation of cure and curative but
it means the same thing so sometimes
it'll be the same word
sometimes it'll be an entirely different
word the key
is that the meaning is the same between
the text
and the answer options the other answer
options there
were not mentioned or they were
contradictory or wrong
let's do another one okay so the next
part of the paragraph by the way it
doesn't always go sentence by sentence
like this sometimes you have to read
a few sentences or an entire paragraph
before it gets to the next
question nevertheless this one says
chinese media
report that a liquor manufacturer in
guangdong province
hoped to capitalize on the custom by
selling bottles of alcohol stuffed with
parts of rare species
such as the common water lizard crow
pheasant and tocay gecko
number two question two it was reported
that an alcohol producer sold bottles of
liquor that included pieces of rare
animals because
he a wanted to help people with disease
b wanted to profit from the exercise c
wanted to test alternative medicine or d
was going undercover for a new story
that one's definitely wrong
if we look closely at this part of the
paragraph
we can see that he hoped to capitalize
on the custom so which of those answer
options
a b c or d say the same thing
as this part of the sentence but in
different words
the answer is be wanted to profit
from capitalize on these
are the same in terms of meaning it's a
paraphrase
all right how's that going hopefully
you're getting these along
with me now if you do have an ielts test
coming up one of the best things you can
do is
take a mock test but not just any old
mock test
you should take this one the e2 ielts
mock test it's computer delivered you do
it on your laptop from the comfort of
your own home
it's just like the computer delivered
ielts test
you take a one-on-one speaking mock test
with one of our expert
examiner teachers and you get lots and
lots of feedback
plus an indicative band score and you
can learn from the feedback
you'll find out exactly what you're
doing right but more importantly what
you're doing wrong
check it out at e2language.com where the
magic happens
okay let's take a look at question
number three stick with me
so forget the yellow for a second let's
go to number three the question
it says alcohol that includes snake and
tiger bones
a is illegal in china b is very
expensive
c is medically unproven or d is a cruel
practice
these are all plausible or possible
answer options
we don't know the answer unless we read
carefully in the text
it says snake wine made by drowning a
live snake in alcohol
can also be found in southeast asia as
can
wine steeped with the bones of tigers
neither of these
has proven medicinal value
so what's another way to say neither of
these has
proven medicinal value let's take a look
the answer of course is c
is medically unproven
one of the things you need to be careful
of when you're doing multiple choice
questions
are distractors that is one of those
answer options or a few of those answer
options
will contain key words from the text but
they won't necessarily be correct okay
so you can't just match words that's not
how they do this
it's all about understanding meaning
meaning of the answer option
me same meaning in the text that's what
you're trying to do
let's take a look at this one number
four so number four
the authorities who arrested the
manufacturer seized
what let's not read the answer options
last january police busted a
manufacturer and
confiscated that's a great
synonym for seized 24 bottles of animal
distilled
alcohol he's been fined 50 thousand won
and sentencing only 11 years in prison
so the authorities seized what
what's a synonym or paraphrase of 24
bottles down here you can see
two dozen bottles of the liquor
these two correspond they say the same
thing
but in different words okay just before
we do the
final question make sure you click that
subscribe button because we release
really good videos on how to pass your
ielts test but really if you want to
pass your ielts test
you need to go across to e2language.com
sign up for free
join our live classes do some practice
test take the mock test
there's heaps to do there okay the final
question
okay so i suggest actually going from
the question to the paragraph so let's
go from number five
an alcohol producer was arrested and
made to serve
a prison sentence of so we're looking at
a number here
probably not the number of the amounts
of money
if we look closely we can see nearly 11
years in prison
nearly nearly 11 years in prison
so if we look at a 11 years incorrect
b just under a decade incorrect
c just over a decade
correct d 10 years wrong
the answer there c just over
a decade cool that's it how did you go
did you get all
five correct hopefully that was helpful
just remember that the text and the
questions
follow the same order that is the first
question will always be towards the top
of the text
and then the second and third question
etc i recommend going from the question
to the text and remember that you're
looking for
meaning not just word matching
the answer option and the part of the
text will say the same thing
but in different words that's the key
thanks for watching my name is jay
i'll see you soon
you